docs: add component harnesses guides (#59078)
angular/angular: adev/src/content/guide/testing/component-harnesses-testing-environments.md

# Adding harness support for additional testing environments

## Before you start

Tip: This guide assumes you've already read the [component harnesses overview guide](guide/testing/component-harnesses-overview). Read that first if you're new to using component harnesses.

### When does adding support for a test environment make sense?

To use component harnesses in the following environments, you can use Angular CDK's two built-in environments:
- Unit tests
- WebDriver end-to-end tests

To use a supported testing environment, read the [Creating harnesses for your components guide](guide/testing/creating-component-harnesses).

> Otherwise, to add support for other environments, you need to define how to interact with a DOM element and how DOM interactions work in your environment. See the subsequent sections for more information.

Author: I'll use your updated sentence. I like how this is call to action like the sentence above.

### CDK Installation

The [Component Dev Kit (CDK)](https://material.angular.io/cdk/categories) is a set of behavior primitives for building components. To use the component harnesses, first install `@angular/cdk` from npm. You can do this from your terminal using the Angular CLI:

<docs-code language="shell">
  ng add @angular/cdk
</docs-code>

## Creating a `TestElement` implementation

Every test environment must define a `TestElement` implementation. The `TestElement` interface serves as an environment-agnostic representation of a DOM element; it lets harnesses interact with DOM elements regardless of the underlying environment. Because some environments don't support interacting with DOM elements synchronously (e.g. WebDriver), all `TestElement` methods are asynchronous, returning a `Promise` with the result of the operation.

`TestElement` offers a number of methods to interact with the underlying DOM such as `blur()`, `click()`, `getAttribute()`, and more. See the [TestElement API reference page](https://material.angular.io/cdk/test-harnesses/api#TestElement) for the full list of methods.

> The `TestElement` interface consists largely of methods that resemble methods available on `HTMLElement`; similar methods exist in most test environments, which makes implementing the methods fairly straightforward. However, one important difference to note when implementing the `sendKeys` method, is that the key codes in the `TestKey` enum likely differ from the key codes used in the test environment. Environment authors should maintain a mapping from `TestKey` codes to the codes used in the particular testing environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `TestElement` interface consists largely of methods that resemble methods available on `HTMLElement`. Similar methods exist in most test environments, which makes implementing the methods fairly straightforward. However, one important difference to note when implementing the `sendKeys` method is that the key codes in the `TestKey` enum likely differ from the key codes used in the test environment. Environment authors should maintain a mapping from `TestKey` codes to the codes used in the particular testing environment.
```

The following are the abstract methods that must be implemented:

| Method                                                        | Description           |
|:---                                                           | :---                  |
| `abstract getDocumentRoot(): E`                               | Gets the root element for the environment (e.g. `document.body`). |
| `abstract createTestElement(element: E): TestElement`         | Creates a `TestElement` for the given raw element. |
| `abstract createEnvironment(element: E): HarnessEnvironment`  | Creates a `HarnessEnvironment` rooted at the given raw element. |
| `abstract getAllRawElements(selector: string): Promise<E[]>`  | Gets all of the raw elements under the root element of the environment matching the given selector. |
| `abstract forceStabilize(): Promise<void>`                    | Gets a `Promise` that resolves when the `NgZone` is stable. Additionally, if applicable, tells `NgZone` to stabilize (e.g. calling `flush()` in a `fakeAsync` test). |
| `abstract waitForTasksOutsideAngular(): Promise<void>`        | Gets a `Promise` that resolves when the parent zone of `NgZone` is stable. |

> In addition to implementing the missing methods, this class should provide a way for test authors to get `ComponentHarness` instances. You should define a protected constructor and provide a static method called `loader` that returns a `HarnessLoader` instance. This allows test authors to write code like: `SomeHarnessEnvironment.loader().getHarness(...)`. Depending on the needs of the particular environment, the class may provide several different static methods or require arguments to be passed. (e.g. the `loader` method on `TestbedHarnessEnvironment` takes a `ComponentFixture`, and the class provides additional static methods called `documentRootLoader` and `harnessForFixture`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `HarnessEnvironment` implementation class should provide a way for test authors to get `ComponentHarness` instances in addition to implementing the missing methods. You should define a protected constructor and provide a static method called `loader` that returns a `HarnessLoader` instance. This enables test authors to write code like: `SomeHarnessEnvironment.loader().getHarness(...)`. Depending on the needs of the particular environment, the class may provide several different static methods or require arguments to be passed. For example, the `loader` method on `TestbedHarnessEnvironment` takes a `ComponentFixture`, and the class provides additional static methods called `documentRootLoader` and `harnessForFixture`.
```
